# Permute and Brute Force Password-Protected Compressed Files

## Setup
```
git clone https://github.com/silpian/permute-and-brute.git
cd permute-and-brute
chmod u+x permute.sh
chmod u+x brute.sh
```

You will need to install [7-Zip](https://www.7-zip.org) if you would like to attempt to brute force crack compressed files. If you only want to use the password permuter, you don't need to install 7-Zip.

After installation of 7-Zip, add the path to the 7-zip executable ('7z.exe' on Windows) to your command line environment.

On Windows, this can be done by locating the path of the directory containing the 7-zip executable (usually, 'C:\Program Files\7-Zip') and then adding this to the PATH variable in 'Edit environment variables for your account' in the Control Panel settings.

On mac OS, you can add the 7-Zip directory by editing the '/etc/paths':
```
sudo nano /etc/paths
# navigate to the bottom
# add path of 7-Zip directory here
# hit control-x
# enter 'Y' to save'
```

## Password Permuter
```
./permute.sh [PASSWORD_LIST] [MAX_WORDS_PER_PERMUTATION]
```

Arguments
```PASSWORD_LIST``` - output filename to store all permutations (i.e., passwords to test) of the words given by the user
```MAX_WORDS_PER_PERMUTATION``` - the maximum number of words to put together to form on permutation. If the maximum number of words was 2, then given the words 'fajita', 'ice', 'cream', then the possible passwords would include 'fajita', 'ice', 'cream', 'fajitaice', 'icefajita', 'creamfajita', etc, but would not include 'fajitaicecream' because this requires three words.

Given some words/numbers (presumably ones that the user expects to be in the correct password) and a maximum permutation count (default: 4), it will output a file (default: ```password_file.txt```) containing all possible permutations.


For example,
```
./permute.sh new_password_list.txt 2
...
rainbow
eating
paper

```

would output a file ```new_password_list.txt```:
```
$ cat new_password_list.txt
rainbow
eating
paper
rainbowrainbow
rainboweating
rainbowpaper
eatingrainbow
eatingeating
eatingpaper
paperrainbow
papereating
paperpaper
```

## Brute Forcer using 7-Zip
```
./brute.sh [PASSWORD_LIST] [ENCRYPTED_COMPRESSED_FILE]
```
Given a list of passwords (one password on each line), such as the password list generated by the permuter, and an encrypted compressed file, the script will try every password in the list against the encrypted file.

## 'crack_this.7z'

I have encrypted a folder 'crack_this.7z' and generated a password list that contains the correct password:

```
./brute.sh password_list.txt crack_this.7z
```
